update eventsourced.adoc to new API and codgen, #222 (#293)
lightbend/akkaserverless-java-sdk: docs/src/modules/java/pages/eventsourced.adoc

include::ROOT:partial$include.adoc[]
include::partial$eventsourced.adoc[]

> https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/reference/glossary.html#event_sourced_entity[Event Sourced Entities] persist changes as events and snapshots. Akka Serverless needs to serialize that data to send it to the underlying data store. The most straightforward way to persist the state is with Protocol Buffers using `protobuf` types.

Reviewer: At least the only way we should talk about in the docs, so maybe?
```suggestion
https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/reference/glossary.html#event_sourced_entity[Event Sourced Entities] persist changes as events and snapshots. Akka Serverless needs to serialize that data to send it to the underlying data store, this is done with Protocol Buffers using `protobuf` types.
```

[source,java]
.src/main/java/com/example/shoppingcart/domain/ShoppingCart.java
----
include::example$java-eventsourced-shopping-cart/src/main/java/com/example/shoppingcart/domain/ShoppingCart.java[tag=class]
----
<1> Extends the generated `AbstractShoppingCart`, which extends link:{attachmentsdir}/api/com/akkaserverless/javasdk/eventsourcedentity/EventSourcedEntity.html[`EventSourcedEntity` {tab-icon}, window="new"].
<2> Defines the initial, empty, state that is used before any updates.

We need to implement all methods our Event Sourced Entity offers as https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/reference/glossary.html#command_handler[_command handlers_].

The code-generation will generate an implementation class with an initial empty implementation which we'll discuss below.

> Command handlers show in the implementation class as methods that override abstract methods from `AbstractShoppingCart`. The methods take the current state as the first parameter and the request message as the second parameter. They return an `Effect`, which describes next processing actions, such as emitting events and sending a reply.

Reviewer 2: Not sure `show` in `Command handlers show in the implementation class as methods ...` reads that well. Maybe `are implemented` is more direct, even with `implementation class`. Or could be `are required` or similar.

```suggestion
Command handlers are implemented in the implementation class as methods that override abstract methods from `AbstractShoppingCart`. The methods take the current state as the first parameter and the request message as the second parameter. They return an `Effect`, which describes next processing actions, such as emitting events and sending a reply.
```

Author: I agree, must be similar in value entity docs. "implemented in the implementation" is somewhat funny. I'll see if I can rephrase that.

> Command handlers show in the implementation class as methods that override abstract methods from `AbstractShoppingCart`. The methods take the current state as the first parameter and the request message as the second parameter. They return an `Effect`, which describes next processing actions, such as emitting event and sending a reply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Command handlers show in the implementation class as methods that override abstract methods from `AbstractShoppingCart`. The methods take the current state as the first parameter and the request message as the second parameter. They return an `Effect`, which describes next processing actions, such as emitting events and sending a reply.
```

=== Updating state

> In the example below, the `AddItem` service call uses the request message `AddLineItem`. It returns an `Effect` to emit an event and send a reply. The state is updated by the event handler.

Reviewer: Worth saying something about order of things?
```suggestion
In the example below, the `AddItem` service call uses the request message `AddLineItem`. It returns an `Effect` to emit an event and then send a reply once the event is stored successfully. The state is updated by the event handler.
```

----

=== Retrieving state

The following example shows the implementation of the `GetCart` command handler. This command handler is a read-only command handler--it doesn't update the state, it just returns it:

[source,java,indent=0]
.src/main/java/com/example/shoppingcart/domain/ShoppingCart.java
----
include::example$java-eventsourced-shopping-cart/src/main/java/com/example/shoppingcart/domain/ShoppingCart.java[tag=getCart]
----
<1> The current state is passed to the method.
<2> We convert the domain representation to the API representation that is sent as a reply by returning an `Effect` with `effects().reply`.

== Registering the Entity

To make Akka Serverless aware of the Event Sourced Entity, we need to register it with the service.

From the code-generation, the registration gets automatically inserted in the generated `AkkaServerlessFactory.withComponents` method from the `Main` class.

[source,java]
.src/main/java/com/example/shoppingcart/Main.java
----
include::example$java-eventsourced-shopping-cart/src/main/java/com/example/shoppingcart/Main.java[]
----

> By default, the generated constructor has a `EventSourcedEntityContext` parameter, but you can change this to accept other parameters. If you change the constructor of the `ShoppingCart` class you will see a compilation error here, and you have to adjust the factory function that is passed to `AkkaServerlessFactory.withComponents`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the generated constructor has an `EventSourcedEntityContext` parameter, but you can change this to accept other parameters. If you change the constructor of the `ShoppingCart` class you will see a compilation error here, and you have to adjust the factory function that is passed to `AkkaServerlessFactory.withComponents`.
```

When more components are added the `AkkaServerlessFactory` is regenerated and you have to adjust the registration from the `Main` class.

== Snapshots

Snapshots are an important optimization for Event Sourced Entities that emit many events. Rather than reading the entire journal upon loading or restart, Akka Serverless can initiate them from a snapshot.

> Snapshots are stored and handled automatically by Akka Serverless without any specific code required. Snapshots are stored after a configured number of events:

Reviewer: Should we mention the actual default value? (every 100 events)

Here we describe the config based way which is global to all event sourced entities in the project, should we mention the programmatic/per entity type way as well? (Also, should we recommend one over the other?)

Author: I actually implemented a snippet for the programatic but then though it was much easier to use config. Since an Akka Serverless Service typically has only one entity type the config should work in most cases.

> Should we mention the actual default value? (every 100 events)

I'm a bit allergic to mentioning default values in docs. The snippet there shows the config with 100.

If we want more in depth reference docs we should show (parts of) reference.conf.

Reviewer: If I put my user hat on, I think I'd find it somewhat important to know the the default, so perhaps worth pulling in reference.conf then (or at least mentioning where they can find the default value)?
